August 15, Saturday
===================
10:30 am - 1:30 pm
------------------

### Re-intro of Python

- As we told you last time, we will supply you with an `isPrime` machine.
  That machine is present in [`prime.py`](../prime/prime.py)
- You just have to download `prime.py` and keep it in the same folder as all
  your Python files. You do not need to edit it, and neither do you need to
  understand how it works. 
- The Python program that we wrote in the last workshop is available here: 
  [`count.py`](../prime/count.py)
- Just download it, and keep it open. We are going to do some recap and make
  sure everyone understands how it works

### Improving `count.py` to do other useful things

- Modify `count.py` so that, on top of counting the number of primes from 1 to
  100, it also prints all the primes it finds in the process. 
- Create a new program `sum.py` which, instead of counting the *number* of
  primes from 1 to 100, calculates the *sum* of all prime numbers from 1 to 100. 

### Python exercise for home

Write a little Python program to simulate something you've all probably learned
in Physics/Chemistry: **brownian** motion. What happens when you put a drop of
ink in a glass of water? The ink particles randomly disperse through the water.
Our program is going to simulate the random motion of one such particle.

We will assume that at the start (when the drop of ink has *just* landed in
the glass of water), the position of the particle is \[0, 0\] (origin). Then, at each
step, the particle can either move 1 unit North, 1 unit South, 1 unit East,
or 1 unit West. Because it's motion is random, it can go North, South, East, 
or West with equal probability.

Say it went 1 unit North in its first step. Then, the position of the particle
after the first step would be \[0, 1\]. Say it went 1 unit West in the second
step. Then, its position would become \[-1, 1\]. Say it went 1 unit East in the
third step. Then, its position would become \[0, 1\]. 

Can you write a program which will simulate such motion for a large number of
steps (such as 100, 500, 1000, etc) and tell you the distance of the ink particle
from the origin at the end? 

First off you should try to write this program yourself from scratch. If you're
finding it too hard, then download [`brownian_stub.py`](../brown/brownian_stub.py). This
file contains an incomplete version of the program. Fill in the lines of code
needed to complete it. The comments inside the file should help you out. :)

### Resources

Throughout this workshop (and beyond), we will use the free online book
[Think Python][tp] as our primary Python resource. Any doubts/questions you
have about how something in Python works will be answered in this book. Note
that we will not necessarily cover concepts in the same order in which they
appear in the book (and neither will we cover *all* the concepts that are
presented in the book), but still, it should be possible (and fairly easy) for
you to find answers to your questions by looking at the appropriate pages in
the book.

[tp]: http://www.greenteapress.com/thinkpython/html/index.html

### Now we know HTML/CSS/Python. How do we connect them to make apps? 

This was covered during the workshop, and we will keep re-visiting it as the
need arises throughout the workshop. This isn't something that can be found
very easily on the internet, so if you have questions, just ask. :)
