August 8, Saturday
==================
10:40 am - 1:40 pm
------------------

### Last workshop recap

We will do two main things here:

- We will take one person's webpage, transfer it to our computers, and fix
  the issues in that page in front of everyone (on a big screen). This will
  show you how to go about solving HTML/CSS issues in general, and many of
  your own issues will also get resolved in this process (since many of you
  would have had the same problems). 
- Then, for about half an hour, we will look at the webpage each one of you
  have created and help you (individually) to solve some of the issues you
  might be facing. 

Also, we apologize for not being very prompt last week with putting
information/resources up here (we were caught up with some other work). Most
of you would have found them online, but in case you haven't, here's
[W3Schools][w3s]. Pretty much everything you'd need to know about HTML/CSS
is available there. :)

[w3s]: http://www.w3schools.com/

### Introduction to programming

There's only so much you can do with pure HTML/CSS. You can have `<a>` tags
that link to different pages, and can thus have a multiple-page website. But
say you want to create a `<form>` which accepts input from visitors of your
site and acts according to the input given. You can't do this with only HTML
and CSS, because, at the end of the day, they're both **declarative** languages.

What you want is a **programming** language. Something where you yourself can
tell the computer "take these two values, add them, send them to this already
predefined function, and output whatever the function returns". Something like
that. And that is where Python comes in. 

#### Installing Python

If you have a working version of Ubuntu, you already have Python (as well as a
very good text editor) installed, so you're set. If not: 

- Case 1, you're on a Mac : Even Macs come with Python installed, so that way
  you're set. However, at this stage you'd want a text editor that gives you
  nice syntax highlighting, right? So far that, try [TextWrangler][tw].
- Case 2, you're on Windows : Windows does not come with Python pre-installed,
  but it shouldn't be too hard to install it manually. Try doing that from
  [here][msi] (use the MSI Installer). For a text editor, [Notepad++][npp]
  is a great option.

In case you can't get all these things setup, don't worry! These things are
just more complicated than they should be, so it's their fault, not yours. ;)
Worst case, we'll pair up people and have two people code on one computer. :)

[tw]: http://www.barebones.com/products/textwrangler/download.html
[msi]: https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-2710/
[npp]: https://notepad-plus-plus.org/download/v6.8.1.html

#### What will we do with Python

We're going to write some very small, easy programs that do interesting, useful
things. Actually you guys are going to write them, we're just there to help.
You'll see in this session that programming is so much easier than people make
it seem. And for those who're super curious, the exercises involve prime
numbers. :)
